---
title: Regions
slug: development-regions
section: Development
order: 5
---

**Last updated 31st August 2023**



## Objective  

{{< vendor/name >}} offers several regions for hosting project data.
You can choose a region based on criteria such as its closeness to your users and its environmental impact.

## Environmental impact

At {{< vendor/name >}}, we are committed to reducing our environmental impact. Whenever you create a project with us, we provide information about the electricity grid provider for that region. You can view the average carbon intensity of the energy grid in grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour. 
These data are sourced from an annual average, which we update as new information becomes available. If you want to see real-time emissions generated by each power grid, we recommend checking out [Electricity Maps](https://app.electricitymap.org/map). You can also access a public GitHub page of Electricity Maps [data sources](https://github.com/electricitymap/electricitymap-contrib/blob/master/DATA_SOURCES.md). 

Summary of data being used in {{< vendor/name >}}’s Region Picker when creating a new Project:
| Source | Last update of this page | Previous versions of this page |
|--------|--------------------------|--------------------------------|
| Electricity Maps 2022 annual averages (previous to May 2023, we had used annual averages from the IEA). <BR> See our [blog post](https://platform.sh/blog/platformsh-is-now-using-annual-carbon-intensities-from-electricity-maps/) for more information.| 11 May 2023 | Available [here](https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/commits/main/docs/src/development/regions.md) |

Information on carbon intensity is also available in the {{< vendor/name >}} API.
For example, to get a list of the regions and their carbon intensities, run the following command:

```bash
webpaas api:curl regions | jq -r '.regions[] | select(.available != false) | .label + ": " + .environmental_impact.carbon_intensity'
```

See all available information in the [API documentation](https://api.platform.sh/docs/#tag/Regions).

## Region availability

The regions listed here may be different from those available to you when you create a new project.
Each organization can have its own rules for what regions to allow.
When adding a new project, you only see regions allowed by your organization.

The list of regions includes legacy regions as reference.

## Region location

To find out where a given region is hosted, use the following command:

``` bash
webpaas api:curl regions | jq '.regions[] | select(.available != false)  | .id + ": " + .provider.name + " - " + .zone + " - " + .timezone' | sort
```

The returned list contains, for each available region, its name, provider, geographic zone and its timezone.

### Legacy regions

A legacy region is a region running an older version of the {{< vendor/name >}} orchestration system.
It doesn't include all available features.

If you’re on a legacy region and want all features now,
[migrate your project](../projects/region-migration.md) to a newer region.

## Public IP addresses

The public IP addresses for regions are stable, but not guaranteed to never change.
Before any change, you are notified well in advance regarding affected projects.

They're useful for cases such as when you have a corporate firewall that blocks outgoing SSH connections.
In such cases, add the inbound IP addresses for your region to your allow list.

## Regions

### Europe

{{< regions region="europe" >}}

### United States

{{< regions region="us" >}}

### Canada

{{< regions region="canada" >}}

### Australia

{{< regions region="australia" >}}
