---
title: Describe Deployed Model Inputs and Outputs
slug: describe-model
excerpt: Learn how to describe model inputs and outputs
section: Tutorials
order: 3
---
*Last updated 7th February, 2020.*

## Objective

This tutorial will help you identify the expected inputs and outputs of
a deployed model on OVHcloud serving engine.

## Requirements

-   Having previously deployed a **serialized model** and knowing the
    **url** on which it can be requested. Detailed steps on how to
    deploy a serialized model are explained
    [here](../deploy-serialized-models)
-   Owning a **token** with `model-evaluation` role for the deployed
    model. Steps for generating such token are described
    [here](../tokens)

## Describe the models inputs and outputs

Each serialized model takes a list of named tensors as **inputs** and
also returns a list of named tensors as **outputs**.

A **named tensors** is a **N-Dimensional array** with :

-   A identifier name. Example: `my-tensor-name`
-   A data type. Example: `integer` or `double` or `string`
-   A shape. Example: `(5)` for a vector of length **5**, `(3, 2)` for a
    matrix which first dimension is of size **3** and second dimension
    is of size **2**. Etc.

You can get access to the model inputs and outputs by calling the http
`GET` method on `/describe` path of the model.

### Example of a describe query with curl

``` {.bash}
curl \
    -H 'Authorization: Bearer <evaluation-token>' \
    -X GET \
    http://<your-model-url>/describe
```

> [!warning]
>
> In this example don't forget to replace the `<evaluation-token>` with
> your [model-evaluation token](../tokens) and `<your-model-url>` with
> the url that was generated by **serving engine** on your [model
> deployment](../deploy-serialized-models).

### Example of a describe response

You will get a **JSON** object describing the list of **inputs tensors**
that are needed to query your model as well as the list of **outputs
tensors** that will be returning.

``` {.json}
{
    "inputs": [
        {
            "name": "sepal_length",
            "type": "float",
            "shape": [-1]
        },
        {
            "name": "sepal_width",
            "type": "float",
            "shape": [-1]
        },
        {
            "name": "petal_length",
            "type": "float",
            "shape": [-1]
        },
        {
            "name": "petal_width",
            "type": "float",
            "shape": [-1]
        }
    ],
    "outputs": [
        {
            "name": "output_label",
            "type": "long",
            "shape": [-1]
        },
        {
            "name": "output_probability",
            "type": "float",
            "shape": [-1, 2]
        }
    ]
}
```

In this example, the deployed model is waiting for 4 tensors as inputs :

-   `sepal_length` of shape `(-1)` (i.e. a vector of any size)
-   `sepal_width` of shape `(-1)` (i.e. a vector of any size)
-   `petal_length` of shape `(-1)` (i.e. a vector of any size)
-   `petal_width` of shape `(-1)` (i.e. a vector of any size)

It will answer a response with 2 tensors as outputs :

-   `output_label` of shape `(-1)` (i.e. a vector of any size)
-   `output_probability` of shape `(-1, 2)` (i.e. a matrix which first
    dimension is of any size and which second dimension is of size 2)

## Going further

-   You can check the [OVHcloud documention on how to query custom
    models](../query-model).
