---
title: Quick Start
updated: 2021-05-11
---

**Last updated 11th May 2021**

## Objective  

By default, a Web PaaS app is available at a domain generated by Web PaaS. The following resources will help you take your application live on your custom domain.

> [!primary]  
>  Do not add a custom domain to your project until you are fully ready to change your DNS. Until that time, continue working with the Web PaaS generated URLs.  
> 


> [!primary]  
> Custom domains can only be added to the `master` environment on production plans (Standard or larger).
> 


## Summary of steps

* Describe your desired future URL structure in [.platform/routes.yaml](/gb/en/web-paas/(configuration-routes)
* Understand [what DNS records you will need](/gb/en/web-paas/(domains-steps/dns), and whether your DNS provider can support them
* Optional: [use a CDN](/gb/en/web-paas/(domains-cdn)
* Update your [DNS](/gb/en/web-paas/(domains-steps/dns)

In this short section we will give you a simple, typical example. See the [Step by step guide](/gb/en/web-paas/(domains-steps) for more complex cases.


## Set your domain

Now, add a single domain to your Web PaaS project for `mysite.com`.  

Using the CLI type:

```bash
webpaas domain:add mysite.com
```

You can also use the management console for that.

As soon as you do, Web PaaS will no longer serve `master-def456-abc123.ovhcloud-fr-1.webpaas.ovh.net` at all.  Instead, `{default}` in `routes.yaml` will be replaced with `mysite.com` anywhere it appears when generating routes to respond to.

You can still access the original internal domain by running `webpaas environment:info edge_hostname -e master`.

> [!primary]  
> If you are planning on using subdomains across multiple projects, [the setup will differ slightly](/pages/web/web-paas/domains-stepssubdomains).
> 

## Configure your DNS provider

On your DNS provider, you would create two CNAMEs:

`mysite.com` should be an ALIAS/CNAME/ANAME  to `master-def456-abc123.ovhcloud-fr-1.webpaas.ovh.net`.
`www.mysite.com` should be a CNAME to `master-def456-abc123.ovhcloud-fr-1.webpaas.ovh.net`.

> [!primary]  
> Both point to the same name. See the note above regarding how different registrars handle dynamic apex domains.
> 

## Result

Here's what will now happen under the hood.  Assume for a moment that all caches everywhere are empty.  An incoming request for `mysite.com` will result in the following:

1\. Your browser asks the DNS network for `mysite.com`'s DNS A record (the IP address of this host).  It responds with "it's an alias for `www.master-def456-abc123.ovhcloud-fr-1.webpaas.ovh.net`" (the CNAME) which itself resolves to the A record with IP address `1.2.3.4`  (Or whatever the actual address is). By default DNS requests by browsers are recursive, so there is no performance penalty for using CNAMEs.

3\. Your browser sends a request to `1.2.3.4` for domain `mysite.com`.

4\. Your router responds with an HTTP 301 redirect to `www.mysite.com` (because that's what `routes.yaml` specified).

5\. Your browser looks up `www.mysite.com` and, as above, gets an alias for `www.master-def456-abc123.ovhcloud-fr-1.webpaas.ovh.net`, which is IP `1.2.3.4`.

6\. Your browser sends a request to `1.2.3.4` for domain `www.mysite.com`.  Your router passes the request through to your application which in turn responds with whatever it's supposed to do.


On subsequent requests, your browser will know to simply connect to `1.2.3.4` for domain `www.mysite.com` and skip the rest.  The entire process takes only a few milliseconds.
