---
title: Accessing logs
updated: 2021-03-26
---

**Last updated 26th February 2021**


## Objective  

Logs for various tasks on an application container are available in the `/var/log` directory. They can be accessed on the normal shell after logging in with `webpaas ssh`.

Alternatively, they may also be accessed remotely using the <code>webpaas log</code> command.  The CLI lets you specify which log file to access (the name of the file below minus the  `.log` extension, as well as view the entire file in a pager, only the most recent lines, and so forth.

Run `webpaas log --help` for complete documentation.

A number of different log files are available depending on the application container in use.

Although the files in `/var/log` are writable, they should not be written to directly. Only write to it via standard logging mechanisms, such as your application's logging facility.  If your application has its own logging mechanism that should be written to a dedicated logs mount in your application.

All log files are trimmed to 100 MB automatically. But if you need to have complete logs, you can set up cron which will upload them to third-party storage. [Contextual Code](https://www.contextualcode.com/) made a [simple and well-described example](https://gitlab.com/contextualcode/platformsh-store-logs-at-s3) how to achieve it.

### `access.log`

This is the raw access log for the nginx instance running on the application container. That is, it does not include any requests that return a redirect or cache hit from the [router](/pages/web/web-paas/configuration-routes).

### `app.log`

Any log messages generated by the application will be sent to this file.  That includes language errors such as PHP Errors, Warnings, and Notices, as well as uncaught exceptions.

### `cron.log`

The cron log contains the output of all recent cron executions.  If there is no cron hook specified in the container configuration then this file will be absent. It also will not exist until the first time cron has run.

### `deploy.log`

The deploy log contains the output of the most recent run of the `deploy` hook for the container.  If there is no `deploy` hook then this file will be absent.

### `dns.log`

All DNS queries made by processes in the container (the application, crons, etc.) will be sent to this file.

### `nginx/error.log`

nginx startup log messages will be recorded in this file.  It is rarely needed except when debugging possible nginx configuration errors. This file is not currently available using the `webpaas log` command.

### `error.log`

nginx-level errors that occur once nginx has fully started will be recorded here. This will include HTTP 500 errors for missing directories, file types that are excluded based on the `.platform.app.yaml` file, etc.

### `php.access.log`

On a PHP container, the php.access.log contains a record of all requests to the PHP service.

### `post_deploy.log`

The post_deploy log contains the output of the most recent run of the `post_deploy` hook for the container.  If there is no `post_deploy` hook then this file will be absent.
