---
title: 'Activate KMS with Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud' 
excerpt: 'Find out how to activate the OVHcloud KMS service to effectively secure your sensitive Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud data' 
updated: 2023-06-27
---

> [!warning]
> 
> OVHcloud KMS will soon be available in beta. This guide may be incomplete, and will be updated during the beta period. Feel free to send us your feedback on the dedicated Discord channel: <https://discord.gg/ovhcloud>.

## Objective

**This comprehensive guide explains how to configure and optimize the use of an OVHcloud Key Management Service (KMS) within your VMware on OVHcloud Hosted Private Cloud infrastructure.**

## Requirements

- An [OVHcloud customer account](/pages/account_and_service_management/account_information/ovhcloud-account-creation).
- Have signed up to [VMware on OVHcloud](https://www.ovhcloud.com/fr/enterprise/products/hosted-private-cloud/){.external} solution. 
- Have access to your Dedicated Cloud (VMware on OVHcloud) vSphere management interface.
- Have sufficient IAM rights with your OVHcloud customer account and Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud resources.

## In practice

> [!primary]
> 
> Please note that KMS activation is free, but you will be billed for using the OVHcloud KMS service at the standard rate. For more information, visit the [OVHcloud KMS Labs](https://labs.ovhcloud.com/en/key-management-service/){.external} page.
>

The OVHcloud KMS is a managed service designed to:
- Protect your data within your OVHcloud services and applications using encryption techniques fully managed by OVHcloud. Securely generate and store your encryption keys. You can use them either for your OVHcloud services, or for your own applications without worrying about them being stolen, falsified or lost.

OVHcloud will deploy its own KMS, with two options for consuming encryption keys:

- **OMK (OVHcloud Managed Keys)**: One-click encryption service for your eligible OVHcloud services without having to manage encryption keys.
- **CMK (Customer Managed Keys)**: Secure storage of your encryption keys, whether you import them or use them generated by OVHcloud. It enables comprehensive key lifecycle management for customers, compatible both within and outside of OVHcloud services, and is accessible via a REST API or KMIP API.

To ensure complete reversibility of your services, the OVHcloud KMS provides a KMIP (Key Management Interoperability Protocol) API. The KMIP API allows you to reuse your OVHcloud KMS encryption keys across all non-OVHcloud services supporting this protocol. Furthermore, you can seamlessly transfer your encryption keys to another KMIP-compatible KMS without disrupting your application integration.

Here, we will detail the steps you will need to follow to successfully configure KMS with your Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud.

### Use cases

- Encryption and decryption of Hosted Private VMware on OVHcloud data.
- Storage of encryption keys with the OVHcloud KMS (CMK).
- Import your own key management service (KMS) with vNKP.
- Managing the lifecycle of your keys (use, rotation, revocation, etc.) KMS.
- Use IAM and KMS with your Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud.

### Advantages of OVHcloud KMS

With OVHcloud KMS, you get the benefits of a managed key management service (KMS as a service) in VMware on OVHcloud Hosted Private Cloud.

For more information on the advantages of using the OVHcloud KMS, please refer to our guide : 
- [KMS architecture](/pages/manage_and_operate/kms/architecture-overview).

### OKMS feature comparison

|                                   | OMK (OVHcloud Managed Key)                                                                                                                                                                               | Customer Managed Key (CMK)              |
|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Use in OVHcloud eligible services | Yes                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Yes                                     |
| Use in external applications      | n/a                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Yes via a REST API or a KMIP API        |
| Key lifecycle management          | n/a (Managed by OVHcloud)                                                                                                                                                                                | Yes (creation, rotation, revocation...) |
| Access management                 | n/a                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Yes with OVHcloud RAM                   |
| Logs access                       | n/a                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Yes with OVHcloud Logs Data Platform    |
| Bring Your Own key                | n/a                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Yes                                     |
| Key types                         | Symmetric keys of 128, 192 and 256 bits <br><br> Asymmetric keys using: RSA-1024, RSA-2048, RSA-3072 or RSA-4096 Elliptic curve keys using EC-256, EC-384, EC-521 with curves values P-256, P-384, P-521 |                                         |

## Step 1 - Without OVHcloud KMS (OKMS)

### If you already have a Key Management Service (KMS)

If you already have a Key Management Service (KMS) and you want to use it on your Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud.

#### How do I configure disk encryption on my virtual machines in VMware vSphere?

To do this, you will need to configure KMS on your Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud, follow the instructions below:
- [Guide 1 - Configure virtual machine encryption on vSphere with my KMS server](/pages/hosted_private_cloud/hosted_private_cloud_powered_by_vmware/vmware_kms_vsphere_configuration).

Some useful information is also available on this guide :
- [Guide 5: Enabling VM Encryption](/pages/hosted_private_cloud/hosted_private_cloud_powered_by_vmware/vm_encrypt).

## Step 2 - With OVHcloud KMS (OKMS)

### If you do not have a KMS (key management service)

You do not have a key management service (KMS) and you want to use the one offered by OVHcloud to encrypt your VMware on OVHcloud Hosted Private Cloud data.

### How do I activate the OVHcloud KMS (OKMS) on VMware Hosted Private Cloud on OVHcloud?

If you do not have a KMS server, and you want to use the OVHcloud server (OKMS), you can follow the :
- [Guide 3 - Order an OVHcloud KMS with your Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud](/pages/manage_and_operate/kms/quick-start).

Once you have ordered your KMS and enabled it with your Hosted Private Cloud, you will still need to synchronize with your VMware on OVHcloud environment to enable encryption. To do this, go to guide 1 :
- [Guide 1 - Configure the KMS key management service on vSphere with the OVHcloud KMS](/pages/hosted_private_cloud/hosted_private_cloud_powered_by_vmware/vmware_kms_vsphere_configuration).

Some useful information is also available on the old guide :
- [Guide 5: Enabling VM Encryption](/pages/hosted_private_cloud/hosted_private_cloud_powered_by_vmware/vm_encrypt).

### How do I enable VM encryption with the OVHcloud KMS?

Once you have ordered the OVHcloud KMS, you can configure it to work with your Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud.

For more information, follow the guide: [Guide 1 - Configure Virtual Machine Encryption with a KMS Server](/pages/hosted_private_cloud/hosted_private_cloud_powered_by_vmware/vmware_kms_vsphere_configuration)

## Step 3 - With vNKP

### If you do not have a Key Management Service (KMS)

If you don't want to use OVHcloud's KMS (OKMS) and you want to create your own KMS server you can use vNKP.

### How do I use the vSphere Native Key Management (vNKP) service ?

If you would like to manage your encryption keys (KMS) personally with the VMware native protocol.

You can do this with the Hosted Private Cloud VMWare on OVHcloud **vNKP** technology provided.

You can follow, guide n°2 :
- [Guide 2 - Setting up a KMS on vSphere with vSphere Native Key Provider (vNKP)](/pages/hosted_private_cloud/hosted_private_cloud_powered_by_vmware/vm_encrypt-vnkp).

## Go further

KMS for Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud - Guide index :
- Guide 1: [Configure the encryption of virtual machines in vSphere using an OVHcloud KMS server (KMS on OVHcloud + vSphere on OVHcloud)](/pages/hosted_private_cloud/hosted_private_cloud_powered_by_vmware/vmware_kms_vsphere_configuration).
- Guide 2: [Enabling VM encryption with vSphere Native Key Provider (vNKP)](/pages/hosted_private_cloud/hosted_private_cloud_powered_by_vmware/vm_encrypt-vnkp).
- Guide 3: [Activating/Ordering a KMS managed by OVHcloud for your Hosted Private Cloud VMware on OVHcloud - Getting started (KMS + IAM + vSphere)](/pages/manage_and_operate/kms/quick-start).
- Guide 4: [Overview of KMS architecture](/pages/manage_and_operate/kms/architecture-overview).
- Guide 5: [Enabling VM Encryption](/pages/hosted_private_cloud/hosted_private_cloud_powered_by_vmware/vm_encrypt).

VMware official documentation :
- [VMware documentation to vSphere Native Key Provider](https://docs.vmware.com/fr/VMware-vSphere/7.0/com.vmware.vsphere.security.doc/GUID-54B9FBA2-FDB1-400B-A6AE-81BF3AC9DF97.html#GUID-54B9FBA2-FDB1-400B-A6AE-81BF3AC9DF97){.external}.
- [VMware documentation of the encryption process on vSphere](https://docs.vmware.com/fr/VMware-vSphere/7.0/com.vmware.vsphere.security.doc/GUID-4A8FA061-0F20-4338-914A-2B7A57051495.html#GUID-4A8FA061-0F20-4338-914A-2B7A57051495){.external}.
- [VMware documentation for vSphere Native Key Provider](https://core.vmware.com/native-key-provider){.external}.

You can also follow our OVHcloud KMS labs: [OVHcloud KMS labs](https://labs.ovhcloud.com/en/key-management-service/){.external}.

Join our [community of users](/links/community).
